---
layout: post
title: "Canadian Summer, Type Theory, and Letters to Div: Part 2"
date: 2023-11-25
description: My time in Canada written in the form of letters to my best friend
tags: canada mitacs
categories: experience
---

It is weird that I don't remember how we met, almost as if you spawned in my life one day, and we started talking to each other. We have known each other since kindergarten, nearly 17 years, and I think you don't remember how we met either.

I had to pack my life in two big bags and move across the globe, and you know how organized I am. I still have the Google Sheet with a segregated list of items marked with the bag number they were kept in. The Sheet also records every transaction I made in Canada, but maybe I overdo this stuff sometimes. The packing process was smooth, but on the last day, my bags were stuffed with ready-to-eat food, Theple, Dry Fruits, Masale, and several other typical Indian things, making them slightly overweight. My family, including some relatives, gathered to drive me to the airport. There were so many people that we had to take 2 cars just to drop a single person at the airport. Around 20 minutes from the airport (on time), we missed our exit, then another exit, then another, and then another, and we were almost in Gurgaon. The roads were under construction, and the rerouted roads were not visible at night. After a lot of panic and shouting at Google Maps, I reached the airport 2.5 hours before my flight, half an hour later than the recommended 3-hour window. I rushed inside, all alone this time, leaving everyone and everything behind. I checked in my baggage, and surprisingly, the staff offered to check in my second bag as well. Turns out, if the flights are booked completely, it is easier for the airline to check in baggage than have passengers keep it in the cabin. I pass the security check in panic. I don't know why security checks are always hectic; I know I am not hiding something illegal, but there is always this thing at the back of my mind that I am. After clearing all the checks, I sat down with my backpack and called my family. I also realized that I never actually got to say goodbye to everyone face-to-face, but it was too late now. I was hungry, and there was a food court nearby, but I wanted to be sure that my boarding gate existed; hence, I started walking. My boarding gate was at the end of the airport, and there was only 1 food outlet there. I had no plans to return to the airport's center to have food, so I ate a chicken sandwich and waited for my flight.

I love looking down from airplanes at night; it makes me feel small, just like looking at the stars from the ground does. It makes me feel insignificant and significant simultaneously, such a fantastic feeling. I boarded my flight and turned on Modern Family on my iPad, which I was watching for the first time. The ride was exciting initially, but my body started aching soon, with no signs of sleep. Next to me sat 2 Indian boys, both of them not yet in their teenage years, who were very talkative. They were jumping joyfully and planning what to watch in the next 8 hours. They slept after having their meals and woke up when the flight landed. They watched absolutely nothing from their watch list and reminded me of my childhood train journeys. I binge-watched Modern Family and Brooklyn Nine-Nine, stared outside, and slept. 

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/blogs/2023-11-25-canadian-summer-type-theory-and-letters-to-div-2/brooklyn-99.webp" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/7.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    A simple, elegant caption looks good between image rows, after each row, or doesn't have to be there at all.
</div>

The 8-hour journey was finally over, and my legs could breathe. I was in Germany! I passed through another security check and an immigration check. Do you remember we took German as our third language from 6th to 8th? German was the one subject the whole class barely passed, and most students (including us) dropped it as soon as they got the option. This was my first time stepping out of India, but I could not leave the airport. Since I had only my backpack and 6 hours to kill, I decided to explore the airport and try new things. The terminal where I landed was tiny, probably because it was only meant for international transit. I walked the entire airport, caught a few Pokemon, and bought a couple of juice bottles. Juices in Germany are weird; they're bitter, but my taste buds may be accustomed to the extra sweet and synthetic juices sold in India. Next, I got a cup of coffee, a donut, a few cookies, and a Breze. The coffee, the donut, and the cookies were so tasty, but the Beze, oh god, why was it this salty. I might get canceled for this, but I absolutely hated the Pretzel. I couldn't even chew it without sipping my coffee simultaneously.

This time, I was seated beside a gamer girl. She was older than me, probably Canadian, and was hooked on her Nintendo Switch. She was a bit messy, with 5-6 different wires, her phone, tablet, and Switch lying all over the seat. She always used to panicly wrap up her stuff whenever I wanted to step outside, but she was very polite. She reminded me of my brother, who gets completely lost in gaming at least once every day. After another 8 hours and winning an airplane race, I finally landed at the Toronto Pearson Airport. The airport felt a lot like the Indira Gandhi International Airport, probably because there were a lot of Indians around. I cleared the initial checks and proceeded to the immigration room to obtain my visitor record. International researchers are allowed to work in Canada without a work permit for 120 days under their "Global Skills Strategy" policy. This meant I could leave the airport with nothing but my work visa without any consequences, but I needed another international proof of ID. Services like obtaining a SIN or opening a bank account in Canada require 2 global IDs: your passport and your study permit/work permit/visitor record. Here is the catch: issuing a visitor record is at the sole discretion of the immigration officer. They have every right to deny you a visitor record if they think it might not be required for your stay. I was called to the immigration counter after standing in the queue for about an hour, and surprisingly, the immigration officer was very welcoming. They conducted a quick interview, asking me about every detail related to my visit. They happily stamped a visitor record valid till October, even though I was leaving at the end of August. Now, I had to figure out a way to reach Hamilton, and given that Uber is only affordable in India, the answer was Go Bus! I loaded my Fido Sim in my mobile, asked around, bought a weekend Go pass, and hopped onto a bus going to Hamilton. The problem was the Bus was headed to something other than McMaster but to the opposite end of Hamilton.

Canadians are extremely friendly, polite, and excellent at small talk. The cars wait for YOU to cross the road. Pedestrians usually cross the street only through zebra crossings and when the walking light is green. Traffic actually stops at STOP signs. You can pass a "Hi" to anyone, and they'll smile and reply without making anything creepy. The train systems are based on trust; no one checks your tickets. Bus drivers allow you to ride for free if they see you confused and new to the city. Everyone thanks everyone and apologizes to everyone. Everyone shouts a loud THANK YOU when they get off the Bus and whispers thank you when you open a door for them. The buses are wheelchair accessible; they have hydraulics and ramps to allow people to board them. Every gate is also accessible, with a colossal button that can open the gate automatically when pressed. They are such lovely people. The bus driver at the airport helped me settle my luggage on the Bus and asked me where I was headed. He soon realized I was on the wrong Bus, but given that my luggage was in, he showed me a couple of alternate routes. I could ride this Bus and switch to another on multiple stops, taking me to McMaster. I changed buses at the Square One terminal, Mississauga, and the new bus driver also went out of his way to help me settle my luggage. I reached McMaster after 2 hours and was finally looking at its glorious campus.

---

With pain in every single body part and 3 bags, I walked to the reception of the Mary Keyes Residence and grabbed my access card and keys. I was allotted room 417D, the last suite on the 4th floor, and the last room in that suite. I grabbed my bags, took the lift, and spent the next 15 minutes trying to unlock the suite's gate. I was so tired that I did not realize the gate was already unlocked. A few minutes later, someone opened the door from inside, and this was the first time I met Rohit. He must have heard my door-opening struggles from inside and was kind enough to help me move in. Rohit was a 4th-year chemical engineering student at IIT Kharagpur who actually wasn't interested in core chemical engineering. He was staying in 417C and was from Punjab (my hometown). I remember telling him at 7 pm that I'd settle in and catch up with everyone in the living room in an hour. I bathed, changed, and started unpacking because I remembered your advice - unpack the moment you arrive, or you'll never unpack your luggage. At around 8 pm, I collapsed on the bed with no hopes of waking up to see another day.

At 2 am, I woke up to Indian songs and heard multiple people talking and laughing in the living room. Imagine going out and seeing a group of nerds sitting on the floor in a circle, playing taash (cards), and listening to loud Indian music, because that is precisely what I saw. This is where I met Anuvab, Ankan, Viraj, and Abeer. Anuvab was an ECE student at IIEST Shibpur, but he was interested in Machine Learning, more precisely, optimization algorithms. Viraj was an EE student at DTU (someone from Delhi!), but his project revolved around applying electronics in ecology to create a self-sustaining biosphere. He arrived a day before me and was still settling in. Ankan was a Physics major at IISER Bhopal, working with Stochastic Differential Equations. Finally, Abeer was a CS major at IITB, working on ML. What next? Obviously, I sat down to play kabbo (I never say no to a game of cards). I know several card games, given that Punjabi families never miss a chance to gamble and play taash at get-togethers, but I was hearing about kabbo for the first time. Rohit quickly taught the game of kabbo to Viraj and me, and we talked, jammed, and played till 5 am. Playing kabbo soon became our tradition, but more on that in my future letters.

After playing, everyone went to sleep, but I was already rested and jet-lagged. There were a few things that I needed to take care of this week (remember, I was here on a work visa and not a student visa, and today was Sunday) -
Banking and taxation
Open a new bank account.
Set up Interac (Canada's UPI) and bank cards.
Obtain a Social Insurance Number for taxation.
Residence stuff
Ask them to set up my room.
Get a laundry card.
Pay the first installment of rent.
Explore the building - Where and how do I do laundry? Where do I dispose of trash? I saw a gaming room while shifting in; is that always open?
Room stuff
Set up my room.
Meet with roommates and see the dynamics of cooking, taking out trash, cleaning stuff, etc.
Living stuff
Buy groceries, milk, cereal, snacks, fruits, eggs, bread, detergent, cleaning liquids, and 1000 more things.
I knew that there was an Indian restaurant nearby. Ask them about daily meal plans (I knew nothing about cooking).
Transportation card, health insurance card, and 56237153671 more cards.
Work stuff
Meet up with my supervisor and co-intern.
Get a bunch of access cards (cards just keep coming) for buildings and a McMaster ID card.
Obtain access to McMaster's GitLab instance and set up my project locally.
Basically, I had to learn how to be an adult in the next 7 days, but given that it was 6 am and everything was closed, I decided to roam around and explore McMaster.

McMaster was so dreamy and stunning. It had everything - old architecture, modern architecture, a huge football stadium, a real-life periodic table, 1/5th of Einstein's brain, a few particle accelerators, a functioning nuclear reactor, and I can go on, but you get the point. McMaster was big but empty, given that summer had started and everyone had left for their homes. McMaster was also very green, with hiking trails starting inside the campus itself. After roaming around for an hour, I returned to my residence and found someone cooking in the living room. This was my 4th roommate, Arihant. Arihant was a 4th-year Physics major at IISER Bhopal, studying and simulating galaxies near the Big Bang. He loved cooking and was very good at it. Other interns here, including me, will try their best to experiment with cooking in the following 3 months, but he was a MasterChef from day one. We talked about our research fields and how our interests were similar yet different. I worked on building computational software for researchers, and he actually applied them to do fundamental research.

Discussion with Viraj and residence stuff.

I prepared some ready-to-eat food (Rajma and Theple) for lunch and called you. 